With the causes of my first plunge into the troubled waters of trade at
the early age of nine I have here nothing to do. It must suffice to say
that one spring morning, over forty years ago, I entered the emporium
of an oil, colour, and Italian warehouseman (to quote from his fascia),
in what was then known as Kensal New Town, a neighbourhood that had
long been of unsavoury reputation, but was emerging into something
like respectability by the aid of sundry long rows of jerry-built,
stucco-ornamented houses, the inhabitants of which tried hard to forget
the former appellation of their chosen abiding-place, and dated their
letters, when they wrote any, from Upper Westbourne Park.

Mingled with the rows of mean streets of private dwellings were a few
scattered shops tenanted by brave and daring folk who lived principally
upon hope and a little capital. One of these had established himself
between a butcher and a baker, and having laid in a stock of the
amazingly miscellaneous description which characterises what we in
London call, _tout court_, an "oil shop," awaited local custom. But
having no children to assist him, and his wife being fully occupied
with household duties, he sought additional help, and I obtained the
situation. How vivid and fresh is the recollection of my opening morn!
With what awe did I gaze upon the closely packed shop, wondering
however mortal mind could tell where everything was stowed; how
curiously did I sniff the mingled odours of paint, soap, paraffin,
glue, dog-biscuit, size, etc., all combined by the piney scent of the
newly chopped wood which was stacked in halfpenny bundles up against
the counter.